.TH RIO "1" "03 MAY 2009" "version 0.9.4" "Misc Commands"
.SH NAME
rio \- the remote I/O adapter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rio
[\fIOPTION\fP]... [\fIFILE\fP|\fIPROGRAM\fP]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
." In case you forget again what roff is about: http://www.linuxjournal.com/article/1158.
." Useful commands:
." groff -Tascii -man rio.man > man.1
." groff -Tps -man rio.man > rio.ps && ps2pdf rio.ps
.PP
\fBrio\fP copies simultaneously its standard input and standard output to and from a stream socket.
A stream socket can be established passively or actively. In passive mode \fBrio\fP functions as
an iterative server listening for connections.
.PP
Optionally one or more files passed as additional parameters are injected into the socket
before copying standard input. In passive mode each connection gets served a single file iterating
through the \fIFILE\fP list. Each file may also be executed (\fB-x\fP). In this case the standard input
and output of the \fIPROGRAM\fP in execution will be copied to the connected socket.
.PP
By default \fBrio\fP operates in binary mode, but it can also transfer bytes line-vise (\fB-a\fP).
In canonical mode \fBrio\fP will read and write data line-vise and will automatically
convert line endings from the local line ending style (\\012) to a chosen network line
ending style (\\015\\012 by default).
.PP
If operating in canonical mode without a pipe connected to its standard input, \fBrio\fP will
start a line editor (\fBrio_rl\fP by default) to edit each line before transmission. This
allows chatting with services like FTP or SMTP in a comfortable manner.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-\-server, \-s
Server mode
.TP
\-\-client, \-c
Client mode
.TP
\-\-host, \-t
Host name or address
.TP
\-\-port, \-p
Port number
.TP
\-\-inet6, \-6
Prefer IPv6
.TP
\-\-backlog, \-b
Backlog length of listening socket
.TP
\-\-canon, \-b
Line-vise I/O mode
.TP
\-\-editor, \-e
Line editor
.TP
\-\-eol, \-n
Line ending style ('crlf' or 'nl')
.TP
\-\-io_unit, \-u
I/O buffer size
.TP
\-\-quiet, \-q
Do not output any status messages
.TP
\-\-logging, \-g
Logging flags (connect,recv,send,merged)
.TP
\-\-log_dir, \-d
Target directory for log files
.TP
\-\-exec, \-x
Execute each [PROGRAM]
.TP
\-\-loop, \-l
Endless repeat serving connections
.TP
\-\-repeat=\fIN\fP, \-r=\fIN\fP
Repeat serving exactly \fIN\fP connections
.TP
\-\-help, \-h
Print help
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Piping a file from one host to another:
.nf
Host A: rio --server < some_file
Host B: rio --client --host=A > some_file
.fi
.TP
Running a HTTP logging proxy:
Service definition (/etc/inetd.conf) on host A:
.nf
www stream tcpnowait user /full/path/rio rio -c -t=B -p=80 -q -g=send,recv -d=/home/user/www
.fi
.TP
Remotely working on another hosts:
.nf
Host A: rio -sax bash
Host B: rio -c -t=A
.fi
.SH "SEE ALSO"
hd(1), inetd(8), tcpdump(1), rget(1)
.SH AUTHOR
Frank Mertens, frank@cyblogic.de
